Sun: The Sun is the main star of the Solar system, the closest star to the Earth, everything found in the Solar system is orbiting around it, the whole system’s main part. It’s 149 600 000 kms away from the Earth and it’s 332 900 times heavier than the Earth.

Mercury: Mercury is the closest orbiting planet to the Sun, and ever since the Pluto was recorded as a dwarf planet, it’s the smallest planet. It’s width is not even 40% of the Earths, because of that, some Moons orbiting giant planets are bigger than it, It’s weight is 5,5% of the Earths.

Venus: The Venus is the second planet in the Solar system. It’s weight, components and size is similar to the Earth, so it’s sometimes named the „twin of the Earth”. It’s orbit is very similar to a perfect circle, it’s the closest planet to the Earth.

Earth: Earth, our home, the 5th biggest planet in the Solar system, looking at it’s width, weight, and density, it’s considered the biggest rock planet, but it’s width is only 664 kms bigger than Venus.

Mars: Mars is the 4th planet, the furthest orbiting rock planet to the Sun. It’s half the size of the Earth, and only 11% of it’s weight, the whole surface of Mars is smaller than all the land on Earth combined.

Jupiter: Jupiter is our 5th stop, it’s the biggest in size and weight. It’s name comes from the Roman god luppiter, but it was discovered way before the romans, and in most of the ancient cultures it was associated with god sor goddesses. it’s weight is insignificant in the Solar system-only 1000th of the Sun, it’s very significant next to the other planets, it’s 2 and a half times bigger than all the planets.

Saturn: Saturn is the 6th sight to see, it’s a similar giant as Jupiter, the second biggest of the planets, it’s a giant planet next to Jupiter, Uranus and Neptune. In terms of weight it’s smaller than Jupiter, but it’s internal volume is only 20% less, because of that, it’s less dense. The only planet that is less dense than water.

Uranus: Uranus is the 7th planet, the 3rd widest of the gas giants, but the lightest. It doesn’t fit in the category of Saturn and Jupiter, it’s components and structure is different of the 2 giants since it has more in common with Neptune. It has a rock core only 0,5 units the size of Earth.

Neptune: Neptune is the 8th and last planet of our journey, the furthest planet. The 4th widest, and 3rd heaviest giant planet, it’s composition and structure makes Neptune the „twin” of Uranus. It’s 20% heavier than Uranus, it’s width however is 5% less. This planet has a solid core made of ice.

